# Political-Twitter-Data
This is a project created for a Linux System course. It analyzes U.S. politicians' tweets from January 2011-August 2017 to find significant trends in domestic politics. Additionally, it analyzes tweets from Donald Trump over the time from when he declared his presidential campaign until August 2017 with the purpose of discovering if Trump's tweets effected the politicians' or vice versa. I was especially interested to see if the impact was localized only to the Republican Party, or if the tweeting habits of politicians from both political parties had changed.
The main change I expected was firstly the frequency of tweets. When the Commander-in-Chief uses social media to reach people directly, other politicians may decide to follow suit. I also expected that Republicans’ tweet topics might have slowly shifted to more closely align with the President's general tweeting topics when they regarded policy. The majority of their tweets would be positive and agenda focused. When the head of the political party is the President, the rest of the party tends to fall in line with their policy. And on the reverse, I expected that the Democrats’ tweets would have become more oppositional to the President, as well as more confrontational. I also expected the opposite to be true before the election of President Trump. I expected that past Democrat tweets would be positive and agenda-based, while the Republicans were purely oppositional.
Republicans did in fact tweet about policy, but President Trump rarely did. It is difficult to ascertain exactly which tweets intended to support the President, or for the Democrats, which were directly oppositional. But based on generalizations about specific hashtags, Republicans tweeted support for the Republican Agenda 664 times. Democrats, on the other hand, tweeted oppositional statements 952 times. 
However, this hypothesis did not hold true for the past. When a Democrat was president, Democrats tweeted support for his agenda using 4816 hashtags. Republicans opposed the President through 3788 hashtags. There are many hypotheses that could be provided for why this outcome occurred, ranging from Democrats using social media more often, Republicans concentrating on fewer issues while Democrats were able to branch out, or Republicans prefer working towards goals than opposing progress in general. Further research would need to be done to ascertain this.
The most surprising and unexpected finding of my research was the ubiquity of healthcare. Both before and after the election, nearly all politicians’ tweets related to some form of healthcare. Different parties used different terms or phrases at different times and over the time that the data studied, the politicians were discussing two distinct healthcare plans. Overall, tweets about healthcare just about outweighed tweets about any other topic. The data was so staggering that I collected it in a separate graph. 

